you can actually run it on your
own hardware. And the other is that
own data. So you don't have to
worry about data privacy or data residency.
And so we're gonna support that. We're gonna
support Elasticsearch. We're gonna support a bunch
of other data sources. And we're gonna
let you run it on your own
hardware. So you can actually run it
on your own Kubernetes cluster.
And that's kind of the direction we're
heading.
That's awesome.
I think that's a really good direction.
I'm gonna stop there.
Thank you so much for your time.
It's been a pleasure.
Yeah. Thanks for having me.
It's been a lot of fun.
Alright.
I'll see you all next time.
Bye.
WEBVTT
you get access to much more data that
otherwise you would be crazy to send somewhere
else, like process exit events. You'd be a
crazy person to continuously
collect this data just in case you need
it because it's a lot. But when you
run the rule where the data exists, you
don't have to send it anywhere. Now that's
available to you as an input into a
rule, which is really cool. So that was
the main reason we did it, but the
nice side effect that you don't have to
ship all of this data somewhere else.
And so the the architecture is set up
where you can actually push this out to
the edge,
bring the rules where the data sits,
get all of these benefits of the real
time detections on more data that's too expensive
to send somewhere else.
The side effect, don't have to, you know,
increase your bill.
Another another kinda cool thing is that because
you're sitting where the data sits,
your automated runbooks, the actual thing that's gonna
take some actions, already there and can do
something.
Whereas if you've got,
you know, the data is shipped somewhere else,
you now need an integration to reach back
in to actually take an action. And so
sort of, you know, where do you wanna
have the integration? You wanna have the integration
on the, like, data shipping side where it
could be expensive, or do you wanna have
the integration on the the the automated action
side? And so that's kind of, like, the
the thinking there. But all that being said,
absolutely, we're gonna add capabilities.
You know? Just let me me occasionally look
at CloudWatch data. Let me look at something
that's in Loki, wherever it is, and we'll
match on that too. And and that's that's
kind of the cool thing with the language
is that's totally supportable and and definitely something
we're gonna add to Greek.
Okay. So you kinda you support whatever
mode operators really wanna go. Exactly. I like
idea of presampling
because then you're getting the most value for
your buck, like you said. Yeah. And I
don't need to forward all that data onto
LOKI. But then another another common part could
just be write everything to Loki with a
really short time to live of three hours
through the common through the the detection and
then put that onto longer term storage. But
Yep. With sampling. We're very strict sampling. If
people aren't sampling on production,
you've got too much money. Yeah. That's right.
That's right. And we use it on our
back end too. So instead of saving all
the log data with fluent bit, you know,
all the time, we'll write rules for like,
hey, we definitely wanna know about this when
it happens.
You know, let's tell us about it and
then we'll save kind of the data around
it.
Well, don't give us, you know, 10% of
that story. Let's talk about the preproduction log
pipeline. Like, so how are you collecting logs?
How is prec embedded into this? You're using
Fluent Bit. Do you wanna just give us
the details on that? I'd love to hear.
Yeah, yeah. So we're not using Fluent Bit.
Yeah,
yeah, yeah. Literally,
we're just saving the logs to the underlying
container runtime, saving it via journal d to
the log files in the Kubernetes cluster.
And then we have a daemon set that
does a couple of interesting things, one of
which we'll
monitor for all these
log files from the container. So we'll get
the containers, start creation events from the runtime,
and then open up a file descriptor to
those logs,
and then match on all the data. And
one of the cool things about the rules
is that we're actually not running the rules
on everything all the time. So you'll see
in the rule a data source. That allows
us to specify, hey, this is a rule
for
c r e dot log dot nginx. There's
sort of a definition that goes behind the
data source that says, alright. Match on this
image URL or container name or whatever it
is.
And so that rule will only actually compile
and broaden the environment if nginx is running.
And so that's basically what we use for
our production problems.
Know, like, actually, we just had an issue
yesterday where a customer was upgrading one of
our clusters and there was an issue.
We have a detection for that job status
failure, we have a detection that fires for
that and kind of saves all the data.
And that's a rare event. And so we
didn't have to send all of this data
and store it in CloudWatch and save all
of it for all time.
It's just a detection that fires, and we
know we actually need that data.
All right.
I'm curious now. Obviously, we played with this
example in the playground. This is nice. We
run the rule. We get this nice bit
of information on the right, and we can
see the hits and stuff. Now assuming in
my production environment, I'm using OpenTelemetry.
I'm writing my logs to locate. They're gonna
in JSON format. Is that a problem for
Preak, or is it just gonna swallow those
up? It'd be quite happy to parse them.
Yeah. It it's it runs side by side
just fine. It's more like a first line
of defense. So
we have a lot of customers and users
that are you know, they need to save
that data for compliance reasons.
But they're they also don't wanna go
crawling through a mile long dashboard when there's
a problem and and would like to just,
know, hey. If there's a new problem for,
Redis tomorrow that comes out, I'll get a
detection for that. And I didn't have to
write the monitor. Just there you go. It's
there.
And because the data is not getting shipped
anywhere for Preq, it's just data is in
your cluster. We're not doing anything with it.
It's very cheap to do. It's very cheap
to run.
Cool.
I always like to test, but yeah. No.
It's good. It's good. It's good.
And, yeah, the
there's a lot of different timestamp formats that
are supported in the PREC tool and then
the commercial products using the container runtime CRI
format for all of the timestamps for the
data.
Yeah. I'm assuming, you know, my dot dot
is not supported, but, you know, that's fine.
Cool.
I like this. So
I I I've got a few different ways
I kinda wanna take this now. And Nicholas
in the chat says, yes. Thank you for
that extended answer. That was perfect.
Okay. So
I can switch the size.
I'm curious about the CREs.
So Yeah. I'm assuming this is the public
community
driven
That's right. Repository where all of the CREs
live and exist. Is that correct? Mhmm. That's
right. Alright. Nice.
So because I'm assuming,
you know, your product is as good as
this repository.
Like
Yeah. For Preak, absolutely. Preak, this is the
Preak open source tool that uses the open
CREs.
Alright.
There's as an alternative version. Is this your
enterprise
product? No. No. No. We we we have
an alternative commercial version. So not all of
the roles we we have a reliability research
team, the people reliability research team
that works with, you know, customers,
open source issues, and and a growing community
of contributors, which has been kinda cool. I
actually think we have more now contributors to
the open source capability than we have people
that work at Prequel, which is awesome.
Actually, shout out to Nicholas because I definitely
know that he's one of them. So cool
to see you, Nicholas.
And, yeah, I think the rules that you're
looking at here are all of the kinda
open source contributed rules that look at things
like Loki, NATS issues, or some stuff here
in Kafka.
We're growing every day. We just released this
a couple weeks ago.
And then, yeah, we have a commercial product
where not all of those rules do get
pushed out to the open source product. Some
of them have.
We actually just published a blog earlier this
week on some NGINX worker leaks. And so
we're We made those rules
available on the blog and we're considering making
those available in the CRE repo as well.
Okay.
I'm just looking at one that was added
two days ago, some sort of on kill
for Reddit
tags, description,
cause.
Yeah.
When you're contributing to the CRE repo, one
of the things that's a requirement is you
have to have a reproduction for the problem.
So it's not enough to go and, you
know, scrape an issue somewhere and say, okay.
Here's some data that explains the problem. You
actually need a reproduction.
That's mainly because sometimes these things
can have
false positives. And so you want to be
able to have a test case for, okay,
here's the actual positive conditions that have to
happen for this to be the problem. But
when you do the reproduction, you can also
see the scenarios where, okay, well, I can
also see how that would be normal and
fine and nothing's broken. Let's make sure we
actually write the negate cases to cover the
false positives.
Nice. I like this.
And we're looking for contributors too, so if
you're listening and you want to get nerd
sniped and have some fun.
Again, my background is doing vulnerability research and
exploit development, and I have more fun doing
this. It's
fun because you're fixing stuff. You're actually making
things better
and you're helping someone that you've never met
somewhere
that's about to have a really bad day
because they're scaling core DNS
and they're about to hit some mid square
scaling issue. They've never seen it before, but
there's a rule for it that can help
them if in case that happens. So I
think that world is fun to live in.
We all wanna be in that world, so
we're definitely looking for contributors.
Have you ever considered just taking the Stack
Overflow data export and, you know, go nuts
with it? Well, you know, it
sounds like a crazy idea, and it is.
And it's definitely something we still actually do
think about.
You know, definitely not doing it now, but
we are looking at different ways in which
we can scale up the research
because, yeah, there's a lot of misconfiguration
issues, no problems in open source software, anti
patterns.
There's a lot. And so that's why we're
excited about building the community because we can't
do it alone. And again, this is something
the security industry realized twenty years
You you cannot solve this problem alone. You
have to find tools
and ways to share this knowledge at, like,
machine
speed.
And that's, I think, why we get excited
about common reliability numerations.
Next.
Alright. I think I understand the project. I
understand how it works. I understand how to
contribute. I see the value. I think we're
we're doing well so far. So Awesome. You
know,
the fact that anyone watching this should hopefully
start contributing any of their outages and errors
as c
c r e's. I keep trying to say
CVEs, but I'm like, no. Don't say that.
That's the other one. The security one.
Yeah. This is cool. Is there anything we
haven't covered yet before I kinda start poking
around and coming up with silly ideas?
No. I mean, I think that's it. Again,
we're really excited about it. You know, come
star the repos. Come join us in Slack.
We're looking for contributors.
I mean, we we're very passionate about making
this world exist. We don't wanna start with
the investigation.
We wanna start with the detection. Let's do
that.
We want that world to be true. So
come come hang out if you like that
world and you wanna live in that world
because we do too.
Alright. Well, let's jump back to the CLI
then. So we've got this thing here.
Now when I ran the first time, I
did have to to log in,
and I got some sort of snapshot of
that repository stored locally with the the rules.
What is the how do I keep this
up to date? Is it do that automatically?
Is it something I should trigger on a
cron job? Like, how do I make sure
I have the latest
CREs for running against my log data?
Yeah. Good question. So it's an automatic update.
You don't have to schedule anything. It'll it'll
do a check-in
two different ways.
The first check is just like a UDP
packet with, like, a latency timeout of a
hundred milliseconds. Like, hey. Is there a new
version available? If so, let's tell someone they
can download it.
And then every couple of days, there's, like,
a a more guaranteed TCP check. It's like,
hey. Is there a new update available?
We we're pushing out updates from the community
about two or three times a week.
It'll probably stay at that pace for for
a while.
And yeah. So really do you don't have
do anything. Every time you run it like
you did earlier, actually, when you started it
out, you actually just ran it to look
for that problem. It'll do that quick update
and sell it and then finish doing the
thing you asked it to do, and it
does it very fast. That's why we did
the UDP check. We wanted that update check
to be as fast as possible.
And I think we're averaging, like at least
in The US, I'm not sure about Scotland.
In The US, it's for around forty milliseconds
for that check.
I'm actually curious what your latency was for
UDP packet. We'll have to find out.
Yeah.
I have no idea. I mean, I'm also
on
I I my office is a listed building,
so I'm not allowed fiber even though I
can see the fiber point on the ground
outside, but they can't drill in my building.
That's very annoying. And so I have use
five fast.
Yeah. Yeah. I use five g. And it's
it's okay. It has its good days and
its bad days. Yeah. Yeah. Great. My my
cofounder's latency, Linda's listening right now, and so
I'm very excited to say that his latency
for DNS lookups is, like, hundred milliseconds, and
I don't know how you survive a human
in his house. I don't know how you
do it, Linden.
I don't know how you do it.
Hard hard pass on that one for sure.
Alright. Maybe you can talk what's the in
fact, let me push this back to,
like, face mode.
There we go.
Well, you've got a commercial product. Right? You're
trying to make this something that is open
source and available to anyone. There is a
community contributing thing. But, of course, open source
has to be sustainable. Right? This is something
that people often forget, and they go, ah,
closed source. Done.
Actually,
off my audio interface. But how
how do you build a business around this?
How do you make sure that the open
source project has a long shelf life that
people can trust and adopt? Because that's obviously
gonna be an important part of your mission,
which means you have to have a successful
company buying it. So maybe you could go
into that in a bit more detail, folks.
Yeah. Really good question.
So
the way we think about it is
the the schema for common reliability enumerations, it
is really important for that to be open.
Because if you want to have a community
of practitioners, engineers,
customer support,
you know, people
using, contributing, growing
these rules, it's really important that it that
it be open. So that's that's why we
decided to make it Apache two.
And the Preq tool itself
actually uses a lot of the exact it's
basically the same compiler. So if you go
to the, you know, Preql dash compiler and
the Gel repo, that's the same thing that's
in the commercial product.
But there are some key differences,
and the key differences are on the types
of data that you can run the rules
on. And that's kinda how we make this
balance kinda to your to your question.
For the open source tool, it will work
on log data and configuration data.
For the commercial product, we look at Kubernetes
events,
process events, and OOMs,
time series data, OpenTelemetry
data,
you know, all of the support for, like,
running it on, you know, ECS or,
some kind of CloudWatch based data. Those
data sources probably only live in the commercial
product. And another key difference
between the open source product and the commercial
product is around correlations.
So the open source product is kind of
a
one data source at a time. If you
wanna look at this one service for problems
with this one service, it's great for that.
But if you really wanna look at, hey.
I need to know when
my
back end service is having a bunch of
GraphQL
500s,
and it's causing
my user facing NGINX service to generate 500s
to the users on the API,
like in correlating those two things at the
same time, that's where the commercial product and
the language works really well for those correlations.
But you you can't do that in Greek.
And that's really it. That's the key kind
of the key difference, but it's the same
codes. Like, the the compiler that we're using,
the commercial product, is actually that compiler code
that's in the open source version. And we're
not gonna, like, have two different versions. We're
actually using the same thing. So that's kinda
how we
keep it going and and make it easy
for us to support the commercial product because
it's it's the same code base. And using
that data source and correlation distinction kinda line
kinda makes it easy to
continue supporting the open source version, but have
a lot of really cool value in the
enterprise product.
Okay.
If I remember correctly from earlier on, right,
you also said there's the
open source CREs, but you maintain your own
proprietary database of CREs. How would you make
that decision then when your team come across
something? Should it live in a provider one?
Should it live in the open source one?
And do you have any sort of pledge
to the community that things that go into
the proprietary one after twelve
months will make their way down to, like,
open source? Like, how do you build around
us and give people you know, because the
better the open source repository, it's the better
the product edge, and hopefully, that leads to
more adoption of the commercial Yeah. Absolutely. Of
course, this is this is a a tight
rope that a lot of open source companies
have to trade on carefully. So Yeah. I
I it's actually what's kinda cool about drawing
the line on correlations
is that
if you can detect the problem entirely within
that one data source, then it probably should
just be an open source rule. Most
rules, I think, are going to be shaped
like that. Now, when it comes to,
hey, this is actually kind of a really
hard thing to detect because you need to
look at four different things happening at once,
and
you need to also reduce
some false positives here. That's where correlations are
really important.
That's only going to be something that would
be available in the commercial rules for the
commercial product. And so I think that's how
we're thinking about it.
Think we're honestly, we're excited to see where
the community takes us.
And as we get more contributors and kind
of more users on PREC and CREs,
we're
listening to what people need.
And so I don't think we actually have
a hard and fast rule. This is something
during my time at Elastic working with open
source,
we would very often try to brainstorm, okay,
what's the rule, the principle that we're going
to use to make the same decision?
And we
tried many times to come up with a
rule and it never worked because every situation
was unique.
So I think we don't have really a
hard, fast rule. It's really just let's go
where
customers and users of the open source projects
see value and need value, and and that's
what we're gonna do.
K. Awesome.
And I'm assuming, Prik, the open source CLI
that you said is the basis for the
commercial product and the open and obviously open
source one.
If people want to contribute to that, is
that something that is approachable? How do they
get started?
Like, you know because I'm doing this until
I think that the appeal, right, of why
I want to use this is is may
and date. That's the wrong thing.
What is what am I trying to say?
It's universal. Everybody wants to use it. I
can imagine, like, nobody was saying, oh, I'm
not gonna use that. Right? It's right there.
Why would you not use it?
How do people get contribute into the open
source project if that's what they want to
do? Right? You mentioned there's the compiler. There's
the.
Those obviously, the CRUs. Right? Let's put that
to the side because those, I think, are
a completely different
construct to contribute in code. How do we
do that?
So the the all of our code
base is in Go. So that's kinda the
first question is, are you comfortable in Go?
And if not,
it is a little bit harder to contribute
to the actual
the the code base itself.
But if you do know Go,
we want to be as approachable as possible.
In fact, we were actually just talking with
someone
on Monday that was like, hey. Your
contributing docs talk about how you wanna open
up an issue and have a discussion first.
And that That made me feel like you
weren't wanting to accept PRs because you would
just kind of go off and have this
conversation that nothing would actually ever happen. Like,
Oh, that's a bug in our docs, and
we're going to fix that. Because we
want as many contributors as possible. We want
as many ideas as possible, and so we
want it to be as easy as possible
to contribute.
So I think if
you know Go, come hang out with us,
join our Slack. But even if you don't,
like you just said earlier, you don't need
to know Go to contribute CREs. The language
is very, very simple. It's just YAML,
and it's like string pattern matching in regular
expressions. You can actually do JQ queries in
that too, but it's very easy to write.
And so, yeah, I think we're welcoming contributors
on both the actual code base itself, but
also CREs.
Nice.
Alright. I I mean, I was asking also
firstly the selfish reasons because I know Go.
I think I could probably contribute a different
idea.
We're doing it. I mean, my my initial
thought was, you know, I'm not a big
fan of the piping the logs through and
stuff like that. Like, what if Preak could
have, like, a run command that just ran
the thing for me and grabbed the logs?
Like, I think that would be a an
interesting approach. But I understand that.
Is built into
the tools. We kinda didn't get into it,
but you can specify data sources. You can
say, alright. Siri dot log dot nginx
is at this file path. And then that's
just the YAML file. So you can run
Preak, and it'll and then you can put
one file path or many. You can put
it in a priority order.
So it'll do that too. If you wanna,
like, run this on a more consistent basis,
you can define all those data sources in
the file. You don't have to pipe via
standard in. Standard in is kind of a
there's a very fast way to, like, see
how it works. But, yeah, if you're running
it on a more regular basis kind of
in production, you you'd be using the data
start the data source file.
Oh, nice. Okay. I'll definitely be taking a
look at that then. Alright. Let's go with
one more question.
Like, what is your your road map? So
what are you looking to do with Preak
over the next three months, six months, nine
months? Definitely not. How how how far how
far ahead have you planned?
Yeah. Yeah. So I'll I'll answer it from
both the context of Preak and then the
commercial product Prequel. So for Preak,
we're really focused on the CRE library and
bringing in more contributors and actually actively reaching
out to
experts in Kafka
community and RabbitMQ,
NGINX,
Redis,
Postgres,
and and really just, hey. What are some
of the problems that you've been running across?
Let's start codifying that intelligence so that everyone
can benefit from your knowledge.
And so our road map for Preq and
the open source tool is
primarily focused on growing that community
and then trying to
find features that would unlock its usage. So
this week, we actually just added the automated
runbooks
because we had someone
last week tell us like, hey. I would
like to have some automation here to, like,
actually have it do something when a specific
rule is fired.
And so for a open source project, it's
primarily focused on growing the contributors for rules
and adding features that would make it even
easier to use
and sort of grow adoption.
Then the commercial product, it's really all about
focusing on data sources.
And so one of the features that we're
really excited about is adding time series data
so that you can do these correlations across
logs, configuration data, Kubernetes events, and some event
that's generated from a rule on time series
data.
I think that's kind of something that maybe
you'd be kind of a crazy person to
think is feasible to do, kind of like
doing these correlations across like a bunch of
time series data and log data. And I
I think that's like doing sequences and correlations
across all of the different data types is
really, really powerful.
And so that's one of the things that
we're really focused on right now as well
as,
again, just growing the commercial role library there
as well. So that's kind of at a
high level
for Preak and the commercial product, what we're
focused on for the next year. And then
maybe one other thing to talk about
from the commercial product standpoint, you know, you
were just you were using Claude
in your your command line there.
I think one of the really powerful ways
to leverage
AI and LLMs
is,
at least in the Porsche product, two ways.
One is in explaining what happened.
So the cool thing about these rules is
it builds this tree
of kind of things that were matched across
different data sources and has specific hits like
you saw on the playground, like actually what
fired. So with all of that data, like,
what are these entities, these data sources?
What are the matches?
And what was the rule actually trying to
do? The rule itself describes the problem, the
mitigation.
AI is really good at summarizing
this in a story, almost like a notebook.
This is, Okay. Here's what happened. First,
this log data right here, this log mesh,
this is what this means. Then this time
series metric kind of exploded.
These rules really do it's really good scaffolding
upon which an LLM can kind of summarize
for someone
a story, like, Tell me what happened. Instead
of choosing my own adventure through the data,
it's
awesome to have an explanation on top of
that, a really simple one. And then the
other one is if you've ever used Cursor
for
AI autocomplete,
rule creation is another really cool opportunity to
leverage AI in the product, and that's another
thing that we're working on this year.
Awesome. Nice.
Yeah. I mean, you're right about the
the model stuff. Like,
you know, people are always asking which model
is better between, like, the OpenAI stuff, the
cloud stuff. You know? There's a Mistral models.
There's Gemini. Mean, I these models are only
as good as the curation of the data
that they're trained on. Mhmm. So when it
comes to what you're building with the CREs
and that open source collective knowledge, the library
of
problems that happen with applications, the version numbers,
And then it's all that extra metadata that
you're providing, the impact analysis and all. Exactly.
That is
is gold dust for for models to ingest
and help you understand production infrastructure. So that,
I think, is a no brainer. Like, I
see a very positive AI tie in with
what you're building with the CRE model and
the open sources of that and the collective
notch. I think that's really powerful. And that's
only gonna get better over time. Right? Give
that another six months, another two years, and
that repository is gonna be huge and just
have so much more information. So that's a
very exciting thing.
Awesome.
That was great. Aman in the chat saying
that was a great session as well. I'm
glad that was helpful.
I hope you do go and contribute to
the project. And now is the time for
sure. There's lots of good things on the
road map and, yeah,
a noble cause as well.
Any last words for me, Tony, or the
audience before we wrap this up?
Come give us a star. It helps us
out. It's shameless plug, but, like, please, it
it actually does help. So, you know, go
to GitHub,
prequel dash dev preq, and give it a
star.
We're definitely looking for contributors. But honestly, I
think we're
kind of crazy people
because we're a little obsessed with trying to
make this world exist.
We're just really looking for like minded people
that want to contribute and help. Come join
us in community Slack.
We'll do anything and everything to help you
get started. And David, I'm going to reach
out and we're going to Don't let me
discourage you that we already had that feature.
We'll find something else. You can contribute. We're
going make it happen.
Thank you for your time. This is great.
I mean, I didn't I don't think I
mentioned this earlier, but I I I actually
spent two years working in FluxDB. So time
series data and correlation. I saw it. I
saw it. Yeah. I understand how valuable it
is when you can take a series of
data and as you know, measure the occurrences
of something over not just seconds, days, but
months and years, understanding seasonality
in the data. All of this contributes to
reliability in the long haul. And I think
you're on the right If that you're looking
into how to do these advanced correlations,
I think will be invaluable to the community
and to your your, you know, customers in
the long run as well. So stick on
that. And if I can help in any
way, I would love to chat and add
more. But for today, I think we've covered
a lot. It's a really cool project. And,
again, it's not it's not easy to have
an open source company and make it sustainable.
So I wish you all the best of
luck as a noble mission. And to everyone
watching, contribute, check it out, give them that
star, and, hopefully, your reliability will be improved.
So with that, I will say goodbye. Thank
you so much for your time, Tony. We
will speak soon. And to everyone watching, have
a great day. Thank you, David. Adios.